[Music]
i don't mean to bug you but
spider silk is one of the most durable
natural materials on the planet
kevlar of which body armor is made is
weaker than the stuff
spiders produce inside their bodies it's
hard to believe
because if you've ever touched the
spider web you realize you can easily
break it
that's because spiders secrete a very
thin layer of silk
most metals would break in no time as
well at such
thickness the good news is that there
are no huge spiders on our planet
which means you can't get stuck in their
trap the bad news
is that if thousands of spiders with the
strongest silk in the world
join together and weave a single big web
well
you're in trouble the most durable silk
belongs to darwin's bark spider
its silk is twice as strong as that of
other species
the spider is much smaller than most of
its kit but this doesn't prevent it from
being one of the most formidable
predators in the world
the area of its web reaches 30 square
feet
and it's suspended over rivers on
incredibly long lines
the female spider shoots a stream of
silk which is caught by winds above the
moving waters
and carried to the other bank where it
attaches itself to a tree or a bush
the distance could easily be over 80
feet
you can find this natural wonder only in
the tropical jungles of madagascar
imagine that several hundred darwin's
barked spiders spun a thick web over a
river
you're going downstream in a kayak at
the same time
from a distance you don't notice the
huge trap and when you finally do
it's too late you get caught in the silk
the kayak goes out from under you
you hang in the air thousands of web
strands
vibrate and give the spiders a signal
that their dinner is here
you don't have a dagger or a machete to
cut yourself free
the first thing you need to do is save
your strength and energy
the more you resist the more entangled
you get
the fact is that the spider's web is
sticky the more you move
the more glue gets on you slowing down
your movement
by the way there is a group of the
triple eight spiders whose web is
completely dry
but the threads are surrounded by clouds
of ultrasound fill
if the prey begins to move these clouds
come together
and become stronger entangling the
insect even harder
when insects get caught in a spider's
web spiders
especially small species don't
immediately run up to the prey
they are waiting for it to lose all
strength to resist
after that spiders carefully approach
the dinner and spit out digestive liquid
with venom
which means that the digestion process
begins not inside but
outside the spider then the hunter wraps
the body of the insect with silk
to form a cocoon inside which the prey
is digested
after that the spider drinks back its
digestive fluid with the food
the process can be repeated several
times well let's hear it for recycling
now back to you stuck in a big web you
realize all these terrible events that
are about to happen
and your brain begins to work as quickly
as possible
from all sides hundreds of small spiders
are running towards you
looking forward to their meal your time
is running out
but then a solution strikes you you
wriggle out of your clothes and fall
into the river
yeah you're almost naked in the jungle
of madagascar
but it's much better than becoming a
dinner for spiders
you're watching as the arachnids climb
up on your clothes
and wrap it in a cocoon now about those
piranhas
just kidding some spiders use a strong
venom that penetrates the insect's body
and dissolves it from inside but the
worst
fate awaits an insect that gets caught
in the philippineella vesina spider
territory
these spiders don't have venom at all
when a small insect gets
into their web the hunter quickly runs
up to the prey
twists it pulls the silk out with its
hind legs and wraps the insect in it
the spider spends a lot of silk up to
460 feet
that's twice the length of a passenger
bowing the spider turns its prey
28 000 times during the wrapping the
insect is literally squeezed under such
pressure
after this the spider secretes digestive
fluid
inside this cocoon and well you get it
yeah dinner is served the web serves
not only as a trap for insects it's the
eyes and ears of spiders
nearly all spiders have weak eyesight
despite having six or eight eyes
we humans can immediately see if a
little fly is caught in the web
but the spider doesn't know this it
touches the strands of the web with its
eight legs
and feels for vibrations that tell it
where the prey is
or where the web is damaged also the
smallest silk vibrations tell the spider
about the humidity of the air or the
presence of wind
the spider can distinguish the slightest
change in the structure of the web
like a musician who hears an instrument
is out of tune
or doesn't hit the right notes i said
nearly all
spiders don't see well because some
species can't see much
better than humans one of them is a
jumping spider
their vision allows them to see colors
that people can't
but this spider is also interesting
because it doesn't weave a web for
hunting
it sits and waits for its prey when a
fly or beetle lands on a flower nearby
the jumping spider leaps at it and bites
it with its sharp fangs
this small predator can jump up to 50
times the length of his body
it uses silk as an insurance cable to
soften the fall
avoid falling on the ground or return to
the original position if it couldn't
catch the prey
but you should not be afraid of them
because jumping spiders are actually
cute
and many people even keep them at home
as pets
some species of spiders use silk to
travel long distances
they shoot strands of it like one famous
superhero
and use them for climbing others use
wind instead
their silk is so light that the wind
blows it away with the spider
you could say such spiders can fly
and then there are wolf spiders they
don't jump or
weave instead they run after their prey
making them the sprinters of the spider
world
unlike jumping spiders wolves are bigger
and look quite scary
when they catch up with their prey they
inject it with venom
but the worst thing is that these
spiders have adapted to live in any
conditions
from cold mountain peaks to hot deserts
and rain forests
people who fear and hate spiders should
remember that these creatures control
the insect population
without spiders the number of insects
will increase dramatically
and all agriculture will be threatened
wheat corn vegetables and fruit may
disappear
resulting in a global food crisis
remember this when you want to hit a
spider with a slipper
there are about 45 000 known species of
spiders that live
all over the world but some scientists
believe there are twice as many species
that we don't know
anything about yet